But, uh, can we talk about, uh,
darkness a little bit? So yeah. Yeah. Tech Kazinski,
the Unal was allegedly part of the MK ultra studies while at Harvard.
Uh, do you think this is true?
Do you think had an impact on him psychologically, intellectually?
I, so I do think it's true and I do think I, it had an impact. So, um,
we talked before about, are these drugs somehow or other, um,
producing a certain kind of drug experience or do they bring out what's within
mm-hmm <affirmative> so we have this experience yeah. On the one hand, Ken Kei,
and he sort of took positive things out of this. Uh, on the other hand, um,
you know, we can, um, get this, uh, opposition to the modern world,
to technology and to the point of, uh,
creating bombs to try to go after it so that the experience is not in the drug,
it's this interaction between, um, the drug, the person, the context.
And so we can heal people with, um,
psychedelics or people can be driven crazy with psychedelics. Um, it,
it depends again on the context. And so I think it's both,
these things can be true.
And I think it was really good that you kind of highlighted this,
that there is this, um,
polar and that it's not in the drug it's in the,
the other factors and it's who they were beforehand.
And then how you use that experience.
So all that's to say is if we put LSD in the water and everybody we're gonna get
it, it doesn't mean that all of a sudden everybody's gonna have a mystical
experience. And then that's, you know,
all we need to do and humanity is spiritualized and,
and war and all of this it's, it's not about the drug.
Uh, that, that actually is why for me, um, we've also talked about, um,
engineering,
new psychedelics and all the people that are gonna be trying for-profit
companies to develop and patent new psychedelics. For me,
the most important challenge is new cultural Xs
that can create legality safety support for the
existing psychedelics that we already have.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>, I mean,
we have so much incredible tools in these existing
psychedelics that it's more about creating context for them to be used in
safe medical or personal oath or recreational, even with harm reduction,
all these different ways.
That's more important to me than finding some new molecule that's somewhat
similar or somewhat different, but, you know, it can be patented.
So it's the social context. So I, I do believe that, uh,
Ted Kazinski was part of NK ultra,
and I think it affected him in a negative way. And that's, uh,
cautionary tale that it's not in the drug it's in the context.
The context, the person still, it feels like, um,
if viewed from a therapy perspective,
perhaps there was a way to use psychedelics to help Ted Kansky find
a path out of the darkness.
I, I think so. And I think that, um,
this is where I think M DMA comes in in a way that M D M a is, um,
you know, he felt very isolated and very much, um,
out of society in some ways, um, MDMA, um,
stimulates oxytocin, which we haven't mentioned,
which is the hormone of nursing mothers of love and connection. It,
it provides a lot of this sense of self acceptance and safety and,
and wanting to be in relationship. There's go,
Dolan is a neuroscientist at Hopkins. She's get even octopuses M DMA,
they're solitary creatures except mating season, which is not very often. And,
but you give them MDMA and they become more interested in hanging out with other
octopuses mm-hmm <affirmative>.
So I think this, um, for people that have had difficult psychedelic experiences,
um, MDMA helps them integrate them. We've with people that had, uh,
a difficult LSD experience 40 years before mm-hmm <affirmative> and are still
able to get back to that under the influence of MDMA and work out some of the
conflicts that they weren't able to resolve all those decades
before.
So I,
I think that psychedelics could have been helpful in a different context for 10
kaing,
but the other big part of it is that people have to be willing to
cooperate with the experience. We talked about resistance,
so people can resist these things. It's, uh, you know,
the saying is you can drink, bring, bring a horse to water,
but you can't make 'em drink. Yeah.
This is about how people have to be willing to go to these spaces.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
So one of the essence of our therapeutic approach is that we help people
to heal themselves, that we are not giving them the healing. It's,
it's, it's a flip on the power dynamics that existed. Um,
you would say in the fifties and sixties,
my dad was a doctor and the doctors were gods and, you know,
whatever they said was right. And, you know, we,
we no longer of course believe that, but, um, for a while,
psychoanalysis with Freud, you know,
that they gave the interpretation to the patient,
the patient couldn't help themselves,
but they would do the free associations and the psychos would see these
conflicts and would,
would be the one that does the healing would give this interpretation and that
would opens things up. So I,
I think it's this idea of empowering people to heal themselves.
And so if Ted Kazuki had been in a therapeutic setting with psychedelics,
and if they'd had something like MDMA available or
MDA, which was popular during the sixties,
which is a more like MDMA LSD combination <affirmative>, um,
the outcomes might have been different.